<h1>Lore basics</h1>
<h3>Canis Major</h3>
<p>The Canis Major Dwarf Galaxy is the closest neighbouring galaxy to the Milky Way. It had been colonized by the Alliance shortly before its decline. Hence why human settlers in Canis Major’s borders managed to avoid the tragic end of many a system. The little few that remain do so as free states no longer proxy to the Alliance.</p>
<h3>The Ship</h3>
<p>Cosmic Exploration Vessel “Eris” is a private ship, technically belonging to the Captain. This old vessel, once used as a luxury transport, had been restructured on an Asters Guild’s shipyard after it temporarly disappeared during a frequently-travelled route, only to reappear months later a hulk of eldtrich madness and unexplainable lapses in existential limitations. Fitted with top-of-the-line equipment, it perfectly suits the research missions its been newly assigned to. Incidents or no.</p>
<h3>Technologies</h3>
<p>Level of advancment varies from region to region, but overall the Alliance’s research crackdown policies have trended towards descent into ignorance. The Fall of the Alliance only further excarcebated the crisis, with key technologies disappearing from databases and drives. Microelectronics for instance has regressed to standards exbitited during the 2090s. Easy-to-manufacture firearms crop up almost everywhere while energy weaponry is downright exotic. Cloning technology persists only through Neo Theology implants — Cruciforms, and the inner workings of said augments remain a mystery.
<br>Interstellar movement is facilitated via bluespace travel.
<br>Short burns can be carried out by vessel engines, longer voyages require two-way gates.</p>
<h3>Factions</h3>
<h4>Hansa Trade Union</h4>
<p><strong>Hansa Trade Union (aka HTU) — Unified bloc of several lesser trade corporations,</strong> which actively protect their policies, interests and monopolies. Emerged from the decaying husk of the Old Syndicate. The majority of power is distributed into four larger entities which maintaing their stranglehold over their own niches via monopolizing, but leave minor sectors for small businesses and enterprices. <strong>CEV “Eris” is registered as one of Hansa’s Free Vessels.</strong>
<br> <strong>Diplomacy:</strong> HTU is rather pragmatic in terms of diplomac, open to trading with any would-be partner, lest they encroach on its practicies or sovereignty.
Due to this mentalily Cyberchristian imperialism is especially bothersome to them, a sentinment shared with regards to Excelsion and their communist fanatics. All in all the ultimate fate of humanity is little a burden on their shoulders when there's a profit to be made.
<br> <strong> Artificial Intelligence:</strong> Whilst only simple, law-approved models are permitted, Main Corporations are allowed some breathing room to innovate. For better or for worse.
<br> <strong>Civil rights:</strong> Drugs and weapons are sanctioned literally everywhere, though particular planets and stations may have their own restrictions instated. Drug consumption at work has also been heavily regulated. And even if outright enslavement remains unauthorized, civilians can sign a binding contract with a corporation in order to be brought into indentured servituted for a set period of time at its heel. (An event not at all rare). There is no “universal” passport for Hansa, nor citizenship, instead different passports are entirely reliant on the organizations, planets, or stations that issue them. 
<br><em>HTU is what capitalism run wild becomes: pirates after each asteroid, half-cyborgized corporate elite, a worth in currency attributed to each and every registered soul, and overcrowded hive cities. Gray fumes are ubiquitous, filtered by old-fashioned cheaply built terraforming systems.
Perhaps humanity's last hope lies in some of the most apathetic palms to ever be.</em></p>
<h4>[HTU] Ironhammer Security</h4>
<p><strong>Private Military Corporation, which performs police functions in HTU</strong> vessels, stations and planets. Provides a large range of services, from apprehinding criminals to convoy escorts. <strong>About fifty years ago Ironhammer Security was the premiere Military Force of The Syndicate.</strong>
<br><strong>Ironhammer Security has several departments,</strong> each fulfilling different tasks. Here are five most important divisions:
<ol>
<li><strong>Expeditionary fleet.</strong> Funded from corporate benefactors and salvaged Ex-Alliance holdings. The main military power of Hansa, providing protection from external invasion.</li>
<li><strong>Marshals.</strong> Bounty hunters. They capture and eliminate targets by order of their client, an organization or a state, usually outside the buyer's sphere of influence. Despite Central Command’s best efforts, Marshals often come in conflict with local Ironhammer forces, for obvious reasons.</li>
<li><strong>Special Anomalous Unit (S.A.U.).</strong> This department is responsible for seeking, securing, supressing and destroying objects with anomalous properties following their proliferation after the Eris Incident. S.A.U. is also tasked with protecting Hansa from the communist cult dubbed 'Excelsion', from NeoTheology agents, changelings, and other threats hard for the mortal mind to fathom. A pair of operatives from this division are occasionally inserted as CEV “Eris” crew, contracted as experts in the field with regards to the special quirks the Eris often displays.</li>
<li><strong>Corporate Security.</strong> This division secures property, buildings, space stations and vessels. CEV “Eris” guards are an attache drawn from this division.</li>
<li><strong>Turing Police.</strong> They deal with lawless synthetics and cyborgs, or alternatively rampant unlicensed AI. Allowed unparalled self-agency in terms of carrying out their missions. Extremely influential. Financing directly from Hansa, as well as their orders. </li>
</ol>
Equipment that operatives use depends on tasks they're assigned and where they're currently located. However, most of their weaponry is kinetic in nature.
<br><em>They are severe and discrete professionals when it comes to business.</em></p>
<h4>[HTU] Frozen Nova</h4>
<p>Company that provides huge variety of cheap weapons and ammunition, widely distruvted among the denizens of the galaxy. Primarily manufactures kinetic armaments, however secondary lines feature more hard-to-to-acquire energy variants. Weapon designation and aesthetic heavily inspired by sci-fi of the Old Earth: books, films etc. In their advertisement they make references to Earth archetypes or specific works. Mostly modern projectively delivery systems, but they also make replicas of 21st century weapons for collectors or enthusiasts.</p>
<h4>[HTU] Aster's Guild</h4>
<p>Aster's Guild is the merging of a cluster of spaceports, trade stations, shipyards and factories. A monumental organization which focuses on maintaing a controling share of the deep space travels and shipments market. Only Guild members have access to most advanced engines, navigation devices, AIs, and some prothesis for direct connection to a vessel. It’s nearly impossible to become a member of Asters Guild, and most usually get in only by commercial manuvering or influence.
Captain, First Officer and Merchant of CEV “Eris” are Asters. Moreover, Merchant and Cargo are independt entities within ship, not directly subordinate to the Captain.</p>
<h4>[HTU] Moebius Laboratories</h4>
<p>This company produces medicaments, drugs and prosthesises, provides genetical operations. They also have the most advanced hospitals and healthcare available.
<br>A significant portion of their business is dealt subtly, though it's an open secret they are involved in illegal experiments into speculatory genetics, with people as the disposable contro group.
<br>Due to all this, and because of some stories of abductions, Moebius Laboratories are rather infamous. In their marketing policy they emphasize a modern and sterile style, or “new mental horizons” when they sell drugs. Though, compared to their main rival, NeoTheology, they are harmess lambs surrounded by wolves.</p>
<h4>NeoTheology</h4>
<p><strong>Nano Trasen</strong> was, perhaps, the most successfull megacorporation in the history of mankind. The key to success was in two things: first, for a long period of time, they were the only company which direct ties to Alliance-controlled worlds and their management, thus being almost always the first to claim valuable mineral deposits or archeotech. Second — they were granted full autonomy of systems possesing plasma giants, throwing their already undeniable monopoly into a height of success that boggles the mind. With their rapid growth they began to match even the Alliance itself in influence and strenght, becoming ever the more dangerous because of it. With effectively infinite assets to invest in any and all potentially profitable endeavors they even managed to secure the first few steps in reverse-engineering arcane spheres, of wormholes and bionical AI (using pure and modified brains of humans).
<br> So great was their industrial base they supplied their own arms, many later incorporated by Ironhammer, as well as other organizations.
<br>Among a few of their crowning achievments: Establishing the basics of Cyberspace technology, using bluespace for information transfer, creating constructs of pure energy which could perform various tasks, even connect with machines and devices through wormholes.
<br>Years gone by, and NanoTrasen whilst catalclysmic in scale, and all but declared a state all into its, the corporation began to finally suffer a period a of stagnation.
<br>And then came The Rebellion. With almost zero warning 75% of NaooTrasen boardmembers were eliminated by immacuately precise surgical strikes with a span of a few couple of hours, and NT Military Forces rapidly crumpling under insurgent assault. The next day <strong>The Church Of Cyber-Christianity</strong> stated that corporation had been 'purified', and will be reforged by the hand of Church. Thus, the corpation was redubbed — <strong>NeoTheology.</strong>
<br>The underlying tenet of Cyber-Christianity is that the Judgement Day is approaching. But with the technologes and tools provided by God himself they may erect a civilization of righteous people, giving them the Last Chance.
<br><strong>Cruciform</strong> — a Tau Cross-like implant, which embeds into one’s chest. The Church assures that it maintains one’s soul for cloning. Biological age is always drops to 33-35 years during a cloning process, and those who implanted with Cruciform are age much more slowly. That means that, in theory, the life of an implanted human being is… everlasting?
<br>In addition to that, The Church has the <strong>Angel Tech.</strong> Angels are energy constructs, which are created in bluespace after one’s death. According to information that we know, a so-called 'Angel' more accurately represents an early prototype of cloning technology. If one is to die, his mind transfers to this construct. But this amount of information is not enough to actually perform cloning process. Angels are used like autonomic bots to work in cyberspace, to fix errors and to make repairs, or, for instance, to jam enemy communication.
<br>Angel stations are spread across the galaxy, guaranteing an access to after-death consciousness of the humanity to the Church. They solely control the secret to immortality. And they guard that knowledge jealously.
<br>Generally speaking, Angel technology, Cruciform and cloning are simply beyond human comprehension. All attempts to create replicas by other factions and entities lead to nothing.
<br><strong>Diplomacy:</strong> Currently in a territorial cold war with Hansa, The Church, however, has some kind of partnership with the Trade Union in several fields. With the rising popularity of cruciforms, the Trade Union thinks that it can be a dangerous factor when it comes to internal stability,hence the maluses Hansa has instated against Cross-Bearers — for example, implanted Cyberchristians cannot be on head vacations in the Trade Union’s.
<br><strong>Artificial Intelligence:</strong> restricted everywhere, with only a few exeptions.
<br><strong>Civil rights:</strong> religion is crucial for Christians, but the Church cannot control everything. THuge gap between social strata are examplefied in the hive cities, between righteous civillians and lowlife. In slums, where lawlessness runs rampant, drugs and guns (illegaly imported from Hansa, by the way) are a mere way of life for people that live far from hope or ambition. However, the quantity of righteous convertees is increasing steadily.
<br>When it comes to the Church’s laws, among others holy commandments, Christians can’t have any implants except Cruciform. Cyberchristian’s body will deny other implants, or occasionally even the Cruciform itself, a fate deemed nigh-heretical.
<br><em>Deus Ex Machina stands out in constant watchful vigilance down to tis flock, reading their thoughts, looking through their souls. The Inquisition crushes foreign influence in NT territory, slum areas are being rebuilt to beautiful gardens, a fleet is being retrofit with the latest technology. Worlds are getting clearer and decent, but the average individual barely understand what is actually happening. Bulky machines activate by the melody of litanies seemingly emanating from nowhere and everywhere, police officers have long since forgotten where do their orders come from, new vessels have mere skeleton crews because of the recently constructed mircal machines deployed by the Church. When science fall into the background, questions are no longer important. Reality slips through their fingers.</em></p>
<h4>Excelsior</h4>
<p>It’s hard to pin down their origin. But they are not descendants of Canis Major pioneers for sure.
Their simple technologies are based on Alliance blueprints if somewhat crude and unwieldy.
<br>The defining ideology of this faction is <strong>radical communism.</strong> Without any private property, they live in simple communes on ships and stations throughout the void with neural implant in order to communicate and coordinate effectvively. Their families are neither nuclear nor extended — they have no families at all. Monogamy is restricted and despised.
<br>The core of Excelsior — <strong>Haven,</strong> a half-mythical station, the largest hive city, likewise a supercommune, which is both building ships and engaging in intelluctial studies. Access to Haven is nearly impossible, as only few scientists and communal leaders can transit into the main urban sprawl from the “outer commune”.  Excess material from smaller communes is often imported to Haven for use in their projects.
<br><strong>Diplomacy:</strong> Excelsior holds bellirgerent views on their peers. Because of their aggressive expansion, denial of private propery (resources plots are not acknowledged as belonging to a single individual and freely excavated by all) and their agents (who often emdbed on neutral mining and agri stations to convert laborers into immigrating to growing Excelsior communes by using their implants), they are often called a 'Communism Cult.'
<br><strong>Artificial Intelligence:</strong> the creation of AI is restricted everywhere exept Haven (it is unknown how advanced the Ai present there is). Ship systems have basic AI.
<br><strong>Civil rights:</strong> commune controls people, Haven controls communes. The one who is against commune is an enemy of all. Crimes against Haven result in punitive actions against the entire commune. Austere laws and high readiness leaves the denizens of the communes a hardy people not to be triffled with. Their society is deeply militaristic.
<br><em>The goals of Excelsior are mysterious. In the propaganda of theirs they talk about the creation of an utopia, where everybody is equally advantadged and important, which attracts many. On the other hand, the web of secret communes widens, Haven builds more and more ships. A buildup of that caliber can only lead to catastrophic results.</em></p>
<h4>Technomancer League</h4>
<p>Colonists who by some miracle managed to survive close proximity with anomalous space follwing the Eris Incident relatively intact in mind and body are often knowns as <strong>Technomancers.</strong>
<br>Secluded colonies on dead asteriods proved prime real eastate for these newly-ousted pariahs, and they built their under-dome cities on depleted planets. An environment in which continued hour-to-hour existence was a struggle lead to their technological capacity advancing by leaps and bounds. After a century and a half the previously humble refugee colony of the Technomancers became a technological utopia. They were known to prolong human life for several centuries on end, and, possessed technology of a stature not examplified even now.
<br>But it could not lasts long. <strong>the peculiar properties of Bluespace exposure were a double-edged sword:</strong> they disrupted teleportation, protecting Technomancers from an outside invasion force, but also trapping Technomancers in their sector, leaving them little to go around. Soon enough, Technomancers started to fight each other for resources and even mere space to live. This quake cracked the League, and it drowned in anarchy and fragmenting conflicts. The crisis continues to this very day: Clan Leaders die like flies, territories change hands daily, and any unions are unstable and short-lived.
<br>Many technologies have been lost or forgotten intentionally.  The Technomancer's once pure scientific trade lays rife with petty power politics and prejudice, whilst overbearing flourish and luxury has resulted in many an effective original design lost to time. But, however, Technomancers technological level is higher than Hansa’s.
<br>The lady calling herself <strong>the Empress</strong> recently managed to bring together most clans, when one of her chief scientists figuried out how to break the trap of the abnormal bluespace, at which point the Gates were created. Now Technomancers League has only one purpouse — to colonize systems in order to discontinue for the bloody fight for meager scraps.
<br><strong>Diplomacy:</strong> it’s rather difficult to be a diplomat in the Technomancer League. Despite the fact that the Empress provides sort of stability, chaotic atmosphere among League clan leaders (and their frequent death too) provides diversity. One part of the society can freely declare war against Hansa in the morning, but change their mind in the evening. But because of huge technological potential, which is a bargain, both HTU and NeoTheology keep their patience. The main enemy of the Empress is Excelsior, with whom she and her state fight for a few systems of fall Alliance, which are nevertheless habitable.
<br><strong>Artificial Intelligence is a crutial thing in League’s culture.</strong> AI can only exist together with a human, and this connection called Covenant. AI without owner is to annihilate, and Technomancer without AI is considered to be a beggar person. Technomancers use their AI to perform a huge variety of purposes.
<br><strong>Civil rights:</strong> depends on clan and differs greatly, but the laws of the Covenant are equal among the state. The justice is performing by many assassins’ guilds, or by clan’s forces.
<br><em>The Empress promised a great and honorable future for the nation. Technomants are awakening. They fill stations and Alliance’s territory. Sooner or later League is going to be a great power. But by what cost?</em></p>
